
**NAME**

CreatePort - Allocate and initialize a new message port

**SYNOPSIS**

```c
    port = CreatePort(name,pri)

    struct MsgPort *CreatePort(STRPTR,LONG);

```
Links: [MsgPort](_0099) 

**FUNCTION**

Allocates and initializes a new message port. The message list
of the new port will be prepared for use (via NewList).  A signal
bit will be allocated, and the port will be set to signal your
task when a message arrives (PA_SIGNAL).

You *must* use [DeletePort](_0153) to delete ports created with
CreatePort()!

**INPUTS**

name - public name of the port, or NULL if the port is not named.
The name string is not copied. Most ports do not need names,
see notes below on this.
pri  - Priority used for insertion into the public port list,
normally 0.

RESULT
port - a new [MsgPort](_0099) structure ready for use, or NULL if the port
could not be created due to not enough memory or no available
signal bit.

NOTE
In most cases, ports should not be named. Named ports are used for
rendez-vous between tasks. Everytime a named port needs to be located,
the list of all named ports must be traversed. The more named
ports there are, the longer this list traversal takes. Thus, unless
you really need to, do not name your ports, which will keep them off
of the named port list and improve system performance.

BUGS
With versions of amiga.lib prior to V37.14, this function would
not fail even though it couldn't allocate a signal bit. The port
would be returned with no signal allocated.

**SEE ALSO**

[DeletePort](_0153), [exec.library/FindPort](FindPort), [&#060;exec/ports.h&#062;](_0099),
[exec.library/CreateMsgPort](CreateMsgPort)
