
**NAME**

OpenDiskFont - load and get a pointer to a disk font.

**SYNOPSIS**

```c
    font = OpenDiskFont(textAttr)
    D0                  A0

```
**FUNCTION**

This function finds the font with the specified textAttr on
disk, loads it into memory, and returns a pointer to the font
that can be used in subsequent [SetFont](SetFont.md) and [CloseFont](CloseFont.md) calls.
It is important to match this call with a corresponding
[CloseFont](CloseFont.md) call for effective management of font memory.

If the font is already in memory, the copy in memory is used.
The disk copy is not reloaded.

**INPUTS**

textAttr - a [TextAttr](_00A8.md) structure that describes the text font
attributes desired.

**RESULTS**

D0 is zero if the desired font cannot be found.

NOTES
As of V36, OpenDiskFont() will automatically attempt to
construct a font for you if:

You have requested a font size which does not exist
as a designed font, and

You have not set the DESIGNED bit in the ta_Flags
field of the [TextAttr](_00A8.md), or [TTextAttr](_00A8.md) struct.

Constructed fonts are created by scaling a designed font.
A designed font is one which typically resides on disk,
or in ROM (e.g., a font which has been designed by hand
using a drawing tool).  Designed fonts generally look better
than fonts constructed by the font scaler, but designed
fonts also require disk space for each font size.

Always set the DESIGNED bit if you do not want constructed fonts,
or use [AvailFonts](../diskfont/AvailFonts.md) to find out which font sizes already exist.

BUGS
This routine will not work well with font names whose file
name components are longer than the maximum allowed
(30 characters).
